Updating the GitHub Actions CD Guide to use GHA v2 (#5369)
pulumi/docs: content/docs/guides/continuous-delivery/github-actions.md

- /docs/console/continuous-delivery/github-actions/
---

{{% notes type="info" %}}

> This guide is reference material for Pulumi's GitHub Action v2. If you are using v1 of the Pulumi GitHub Action, then
> please note it has been deprecated and will be EOLed August 31st 2021.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The content and examples in this guide refer to Pulumi's GitHub Action v2. Pulumi's GitHub Action v1 has been deprecated and will reach its End of Life (EOL) on August 31st, 2021.
```

have as rich an output display as the Pulumi GitHub App, as it simply copies the raw
output of the Pulumi CLI.

> To allow your GitHub Action to leave Pull Request comments, you'll need to set
> `comment-on-pr` and `github-token` to the list of inputs
> passed to the action. Update the action to be as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To allow your GitHub Action to leave Pull Request comments, you'll need to add
`comment-on-pr` and `github-token` to the list of inputs
passed to the action. Update the action as follows:
```

paramter as follows:

```yaml
name: Pulumi
on:
  - pull_request
jobs:
  preview:
    name: Preview
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2
        with:
          fetch-depth: 1
      - uses: actions/setup-node@v1
        with:
          node-version: 14.x
      - name: Configure AWS Credentials
        uses: aws-actions/configure-aws-credentials@v1
        with:
          aws-access-key-id: ${{ secrets.AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID }}
          aws-region: ${{ env.AWS_REGION }}
          aws-secret-access-key: ${{ secrets.AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY }}
      - name: Install Pulumi CLI
        uses: pulumi/action-install-pulumi-cli@v1.0.1
      - run: npm install
      - uses: pulumi/actions@v2
        with:
          command: preview
          comment-on-pr: true
          github-token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
          work-dir: infra
          stack-name: dev
        env:
          PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN }}
```

Note that you'll need to create these stacks [in the usual
way]({{< relref "/docs/intro/concepts/stack" >}}) using the Pulumi Console or CLI.
After setting this up, everything will be on autopilot.

> ## Migrating from GitHub Action v1?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Migrating from GitHub Action v1
```

> Here are some pointers when migrating from v1 to v2 of our GitHub Action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you previously used GitHub Action v1, the following are changes you should know about when migrating from v1 to v2:
```

* The following inputs have changed from environment variables to action inputs:
    * `PULUMI_ROOT` is now `work-dir`
    * `PULUMI_BACKEND_URL` is now `cloud-url`
    * `COMMENT_ON_PR` is now `comment-on-pr`
    * `GITHUB_TOKEN` is now `github-token`

> * `IS_PR_WORKFLOW` is no longer a viable input. The action is able to understand if the workflow is a pull_request due to action type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `IS_PR_WORKFLOW` is no longer used. GitHub Action v2 is able to understand if the workflow is a pull_request due to the action type.
```

> * The action now runs natively, so the action workflow needs to have the correct environment configured. There
>   are sample workflows available in out [Actions repository](https://github.com/pulumi/actions/tree/master/.github/workflows).
>   For examples, if you are running a NodeJS (for example) app then you need to ensure that your action has NodeJS available to it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* GitHub Action v2 now runs natively, so the action workflow needs to have the correct environment configured. For example, if you are running a NodeJS (for example) app then you need to ensure that your action has NodeJS available to it:
```

(I moved the note about sample workflows to the next edit.)

> ```yaml
> - uses: actions/setup-node@v1
>   with:
>     node-version: 14.x
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```yaml
- uses: actions/setup-node@v1
  with:
    node-version: 14.x
    ```

    For additional examples, see the sample workflows available in our [Actions repository](https://github.com/pulumi/actions/tree/master/.github/workflows).
```

> * The action will no longer run `npm ci | npm install | pip3 install | pipenv install`. Please ensure that you are installing
>   your dependencies before Pulumi commands are executed, e.g.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* GitHub Action v2 no longer runs `npm ci | npm install | pip3 install | pipenv install`. Please ensure that you install your dependencies before Pulumi commands are executed. For example:
```

> ```
> - run: pip install -r requirements
>   working-directory: infra
> ```

Reviewer: Since this code block is associated with the preceding bullet point, it should be nested/indented under it.

```suggestion
    ```
- run: pip install -r requirements
  working-directory: infra
    ```
```
